#LyX 2.2 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 508
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass article
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "default" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
Riassunto papers
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

Collaborative Multi-Robot Exploration
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 - Burgard
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In this paper is considered the problem of exploring an unknown environment
 by a team of robot.
 The main focus is on the coordination of a team of multiple robots by the
 definition of target points for the exploration.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Mainly two previous approaches concerning multiple robots exploration are
 presented.
 First one consists in separating the environment into stripes and then
 explore them by moving just one robot and keeping the other stationary.
 This reduces odometry error but robots are forced to stay close to each
 other.
 Second one considers the use of a common map built as the exploration goes
 on and as a robot discovers an opening to an unexplored area, which can't
 reach due to its size, it chooses another robot to achieve this task.
 The selection is performed taking into account the number of areas to explore,
 size of the robot and the distance of the robot and the target location.
 This approach moves robots to the closest unexplored frontier but neither
 provide a coordination mechanism to avoid the selection of the same frontier
 by multiple robots nor it uses an accurate distance measure, using straight
 line distance rather than a computation on the current map.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The approach presented in this paper uses occupancy grid maps to represent
 the environment and assumes robots to know their relative position during
 the whole exploration process.
 This assumption is useful to allow a simple computation of the integrated
 occupancy grid map.
 The selection of target points to explore is based on two concepts: the
 cost of reaching it and the utility it provides.
 Cost for traversing a cell is proportional to the occupancy value of that
 cell and through that definition, the minimum cost path between two cells
 can be computed.
 The utility of a target point is calculated as the expected visible area
 from that point.
 To find out this value, it exploits an heuristic based on the observation
 that a robot exploring a big open terrain can cover much larger areas than
 a robot exploring a narrow part of the environment.
 This is achieved by counting the number of times 
\begin_inset Formula $h(d_{i})$
\end_inset

 the distance 
\begin_inset Formula $d_{i}$
\end_inset

 was measured by any of the robots.
 The value of 
\begin_inset Formula $h(d_{i})$
\end_inset

 is then used to compute the probability that the robot's sensors covers
 objects at distance 
\begin_inset Formula $d$
\end_inset

.
 A great advantage of the algorithm introduced is that two robots never
 choose the same target point because once a robot is assigned to it, utility
 of that point is decreased accordingly.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The provided experimental results only deal with an office-like environment
 and show that the coordination always provides better performances.
 Moreover, two coordinated robots have performances similar to three uncoordinat
ed robots and the improvement introduced by the coordination is almost the
 same both with two and three robots.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

Coordinated Multi-Robot Exploration
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 - Burgard
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
As in the previous paper, the focus of this one is on the coordination of
 a team of multiple robots by the definition of target points for the exploratio
n, but it also takes into account limited communication among them.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The algorithm used for the assignment of the target points is almost the
 same as above.
 Few differences are introduced in the reduction of the utility of a frontier
 cell after a robot is assigned to an adjacent one and in determining the
 pair robot-frontier cell.
 In fact, in the previous case, cost and utility had the same weight, now
 the relative importance of utility versus cost is modified through a positive
 factor 
\begin_inset Formula $\beta$
\end_inset

.
 Moreover, experiments performed, showed that if 
\begin_inset Formula $\beta\in[0.01,50]$
\end_inset

 the exploration time is almost constant.
 While if 
\begin_inset Formula $\beta>50$
\end_inset

 the impact of the coordination decreases, thus the exploration time increases.
 While if it is near 0, robots ignore distance to be traveled, increasing
 again the exploration time.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Limited communication range affects highly the algorithm explained before,
 but it is easily modified to deal with this problem by applying it to every
 sub-team of robots which are able to communicate with each other.
 Another issue derived from the limited communication consists in when new
 assignments have to be computed.
 In fact, in the case of perfect communication, they can be calculated whenever
 a robot reaches its target.
 In the other case, this approach can't be pursued.
 Therefore, what is done is to store in each robot the latest target locations
 assigned to other robots; in this way, robots avoid going to places already
 explored by other robots.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
It is meaningful to point out that to achieve coordination, the team must
 be able to communicate the maps of the individual robots during exploration.
 Main idea is to split the team of robots into clusters, and messages sent
 by a robot are forwarded to all team-mates in the corresponding cluster.
 If every cluster maintaines a map built from all observations made by robots
 of that team, if connection problems are encountered, it may happen that
 the map is updated twice, which is not admissible.
 An efficient way to overcome this problem is to have each robot storing
 a log of sensors measurements perceived by this robot and only trasmits
 those measurements that have not been transmitted to the corresponding
 robot so far.
 Additionally, a data structure containing the time stamp of the last transmissi
on to each robot is stored.
 In this way, as a measurement has been sent to all other robots can be
 discarded.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The experiments are performed on three different maps: an unstructured one,
 an office-like and a corridor environment.
 In all the three cases, the coordinated algorithm outscales the uncoordinated
 one.
 This is due to the better distribution of the robots in the environment,
 allowing to speed up the exploration.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Coordination for Multi-Robot Exploration and Mapping - Simmons
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
This paper main topics are the definition of a mechanism for coordinated
 mapping and another for coordinated exploration.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The coordinated mapping approach works with (reasonably) static world and
 assumes that in the beginning, robots know their relative position.
 It decomposes the mapping problem in a modular way, being composed of a
 local map stored on each robot and a global map kept by a central mapper.
 As a robot receives its own odometry and sensor measurements, it computes
 a maximum likelihood extimation of its position, a maximum likelihood extimatio
n for the map and a posterior density of its 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

true
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 location.
 This update takes into account both noise in motion and in perception,
 moreover it converges fast.
 For what concerns the central mapper, its main role is to integrate information
s coming from the robots in real-time.
 This information are sent after having collected a certain number of them
 and the central mapper combines them by minimizing the error between the
 scans of the different robots.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The coordinated exploration approach makes each robot construct a 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

bid
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

, on the basis of the expected utility for it to travel to a frontier cell
 and the expected information gain there.
 Cost is computed as the optimal path from the robot's current position.
 The information gain is estimated by assuming that the robot has a nominal
 sensor range and then counting the unexplored cells which fall within the
 radius of the frontier cell.
 Also the maximum and minimum extent of the information gain region are
 stored because they are used to forme a rectangle that approximates this
 region.
 It is useful to find potential overlaps in coverage.
 This approach makes robot move enough far to optimize exploration but if
 there is an obstacle separating them like a wall, they move near it but
 in the different rooms.
 The algorithm used to assign tasks to robots is a greedy one, assigning
 the first task to the bid with highest net utility.
 After that, other bids are discounted by estimating the percentage of overlap
 with the already assigned task and then it assigns new task with same criteria
 as before.
 This process goes on up to the end of the tasks or the available robots.
 Moreover, it is introduced the concept of hysteresis, which is useful to
 handle the high variation that might be measured in the information gain
 metric.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The experiments are performed on real robots in an hospital building composed
 of corridors and offices.
 Main behaviours to point out are that three robots start in a narrow corridor,
 then one will stand still and the other two will go to the frontiers and
 that if one robot goes near a task assigned to another one, then the task
 is dynamically swapped to the nearer robot.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Other reported experiments run in simulator have been performed in five
 different environments, a single-corridor office, a two parallel corridors
 office, an obstacle-free environment and two random unstructured environments.
 In all the cases, increasing the number of robots improves results but
 the amount of improvement depends on the characteristics of the environment.
 In fact, in the first two environments, moving from two to three robots
 doesn't have the same impact as switching from one robot to two because
 the third robot is almost useless.
 In the obstacle-free environment, a single robot exploration has an high
 rate of failure, which is highly mitigated by switching to two robots and
 it's even better with three.
 Also the accuracy of the map increases with the number of robots.
 For what concerns the unstructured environments, the presence of obstacles
 helps in spreading the robots around, so this makes the improvement of
 using three robots rather than two way higher than moving from one to two.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
